What exactly is Angular? Angular
is a client-side,
which means it runs in the browser, Javascript framework which is used to build engaging and reactive
user interfaces.
This is a definition we could come up with
but what exactly does it mean?
Well the first important part is that it's a client-side Javascript framework, that means it runs in
the browser, not on the server.
It's not using NodeJS or any other server-side programming language,
it uses Javascript as it runs in the browser.
Well actually as it will turn out, you will learn that Angular uses Typescript which is a superset to
Javascript but that is just so that we as a developer have a more convenient way of developing Angular
applications.
We will in the end just get a bunch of Javascript code even though we don't write that Javascript code
directly.
The next important part is that it's a framework and that simply means it's a set of rules and utility
tools and utility helpers which we use in our Javascript code or our Typescript code which we write
that makes our life easier
and that will take care about things like sending HTTP requests, routing, so rendering different pages,
different content depending on where the user went in our application and managing the state, the data
our application needs.
This would all be possible without Angular or without a framework like Angular too but using a framework
simply makes it easier
and always keep in mind, in the end what we will get is a bunch of Javascript code that we could have
written like this but that is very complex and very sophisticated and hence is easier to write when
using a framework like Angular.
And last but not least, we are using frameworks or tools like Angular to build engaging and reactive
user interfaces and that is important.
We don't use Angular to build very trivial applications most of the time because it really shines when
we have more complex applications, more complex web apps, more complex user interfaces where a lot of
things are happening and where we therefore want to control a lot of stuff with Javascript which allows
us to update things in the browser without reloading the page, without fetching a new HTML page and
where at the same time all this complexity means that we would have to write very complex Javascript
code and that is where a framework like Angular simply helps us a lot.